Hi, guys.
We've already used Amazon Cloud Watch quite a lot in this course.
However, in this section, what I want to do is give you a deeper level of knowledge, cover some of
the key features of cloud watch and also give you some key facts that you're going to need to know for
the exam.
So on your screen here, what I'm trying to represent is the fact that we have cloud watch in the middle
and you can see some of the various features of cloud watch and the services that it integrates with.
Now, of course, there's lots more services that are integrated with cloud watch.
So these are just examples.
But for example, we can have an Amazon EC2 instance and it can be using cloud watch logs to send application
and system logs to cloud watch.
So not just the logs about Ekta itself, but these could be logs about your application or that are
being generated from your application.
You've then got metrics, so this is the most common way we use cloud watch, we have performance metrics
being sent by services to cloud watch.
So the service publishes the metrics periodically and then we can view them in the dashboard.
So in this example here, Dinamo DB is sending some metrics about consumed rate, capacity and right
capacity.
And of course, there's lots more metrics that Dinamo DB can send as well.
And on the bottom right hand side here, we have also scanning and also scanning in this case is also
sending CPU utilization metrics and and many other metrics along with that.
But in this case, what we're doing is we've set an alarm.
So we're using cloud, which alarms to initiate a scaling event when the CPU utilization reaches a specific
threshold.
We also have cloud watch events.
Now, what cloud watch events does is it tracks the state change in your services.
So in this example, we have the Elastic Container Service and what we're doing is we're tracking the
exact task state changes and the exact container instant state changes.
And when those state changes are received by cloud watch, we can then trigger something such as an
awp lambda function in this case.
So Cloud Watch monitors your resources and applications in real time.
It collects and tracks metrics and metrics are the data points that get published to cloud watch.
We have cloud watch alarms which can monitor those metrics and automatically initiate actions and we
have cloud watch logs.
And we've seen this quite a lot in this course where, for instance, we've had a lamda logging to cloud
watch logs and then we can go and review some of the activity associated with Lambda Cloud.
Watch events is the service that delivers the stream of system events that describe changes in AWG resources.
So let's head over to the console now and just have a quick look around cloud.
Watch some on the management console.
Let's go down to management and governance and cloud watch.
And you've certainly seen a lot of this before.
But let's go and have a look at a few things.
Firstly, you've got a dashboard.
I've got one here called my dash.
So if you go into that, then you can then add your widgets or let's just create a new one for demonstration's
sake.
So just call this my new dash and create a dashboard.
And then within the dashboard, we can create a series of different widgets.
So, for instance, you can have a line, a stacked area, a no text or query results.
So let's choose a line, click on Configure and then we can go and choose our metrics.
So, for example, has got to let's just say, per instance, and you can select your instance, you
can see the instance ID here, and then you might want to sort of just add a few metrics, such as we've
got a few CPU metrics here, we've got the CPU utilization, we've got the discrete bytes and we're
going down.
There's quite a few different instances in here.
And then you can just choose create widget.
And so now you've got your widget, so then you can just create another one.
This one might be a stacked area.
Choose, configure, choose Dinham.
I'd be this time let's look at some table metrics and then just aren't consumed, read and consumed
right capacity units and let's create that widget.
So again now we have a couple of widgets so you can do that, you can save your dashboard and then you
can come back to this whatever you want to and find these various different graphs.
We then have alarms now.
We've seen alarms earlier in the course and we'll certainly see them again in this section that has
couple left over here where probably the resources have been deleted.
So it's saying insufficient data, which basically means it doesn't have enough data to ascertain the
state of this alarm.
And of course, we could go in and create an alarm here, choose a metric.
Sture, per instance, Metrick, and then we might choose CPU utilization, click on Select and then
we can use an average over five minutes and then say if it's greater than a certain threshold, like
80 percent, then we're going to do something.
And that action could be to send something to an S.A.S. topic or an auto scanning action or an easy
to action.
So let's cancel out of there.
And in this case, you can say again, we've got these insufficient information, error messages.
Next up, we have logs and we've seen logs before a few times.
And in this case, I've got lots and lot groups here from where we've been doing various labs in this
course.
And if you go into one of these, you'll then find a log stream and in the log stream, you'll then
find some log entries.
Not many under this one.
Underneath you have then the matrix.
So in here you can see all the metrics for us, names, bases.
And then I've got a few custom metrics in here as well.
We'll see these later in this section.
And in this case, what you're going to see is determined by what you've been running in your account.
So, for instance, if there's a specific service that you haven't run and therefore you have never
collected any metrics for it, you're not going to see it here underneath we have events.
So this is where you can actually use an event pattern to trigger some kind of target response.
So, for instance, you could choose to say all events and then have a target of a specific LAMBA function
when an event occurs and cancel out of that one.
Now, the next few features under here service synthetics and contribute insights are not on the exam
yet.
So we're not going to be covering those in this section.
But that's just a quick overview to show you around the console again.
And we'll get into some more hands on labs later in this section.